# Automatic Speech Recognition Tutorial - NLP Summer School

## Please follow these instructions before opening the Notebook

Here, we will learn how to train an automatic speech recognition system with the SpeechBrain toolkit. The pre-trained models are trained with LibrSpeech 960h train-set. The LM is further enriched with an additional 1.5GB of text data. Original LibriSpeech recipe --> [here](https://github.com/speechbrain/speechbrain/tree/develop/recipes/LibriSpeech)

### Setting up your environment

Skip the block below, if you already did it in the folder before --> `NLP_Summer_School-2021_Speech_Tutorial`.
```bash
conda create --name nlp_summer_school_tutorial python=3.8
conda activate nlp_summer_school_tutorial
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Activate your environment

```bash
conda activate nlp_summer_school_tutorial
conda install -c conda-forge jupyterlab
sudo apt install ffmpeg
jupyter nbextension enable --py widgetsnbextension
cd /Folder/of/Experiments
```
### Download the pre-trained models beforehand

Pretrained models --> [Drive Link - 0.9GB](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1tFp7usKJ0qIJ8ofuil9RgNm5lJ080hgc?usp=sharing)
(The command below copies the zip file from the Downloads folder to your experiment folder. You could do this manually)

```bash
cp Downloads/pretrained_models.zip . 
unzip pretrained_models.zip
```
**WARNING!!** If you get this message: `replace pretrained_models/example.wav?`. Please, type the letter `A` ([A]ll).

Here, you should have a folder called 'pretrained_models'. There are seven files inside: 
- lm.ckpt: Language Model (checkpoint/model),
- asr.ckpt: Acoustic Model (encoder-decoder)(checkpoint/model),
- tokenizer.ckpt: Tokenizer used in LM and AM (checkpoint/model),
- 3 hyperparams.yaml files: file with the hyperparameters of all these models + the beam-searcher decoder (params),
- example.wav: a recording in case you are not able to use your mic to record your own voice. 

After this, you should be able to run the Notebook without any problems.

### Play with the Notebook

Type `Jupyter-lab` in the terminal:
```bash
jupyter-lab
or
jupyter-lab ASR_example.ipynb
```
Open the Notebook (file explorer in the left) --> `ASR_examples.ipynb`

## Pretrained models - NLP summer school

For the sake of simplicity we provide pre-trained models from Huggingface, for Acoustic & Language Model and Tokenizer, download them beforehand. We are using the best model for LibriSpeech from huggingface (disclaimer: we already did this at the begining, you can skip this :):
- [Transformer + ctc + TransformerLM](https://huggingface.co/speechbrain/asr-transformer-transformerlm-librispeech)

## Train your own automatic speech recognizer from scratch 

To train a full speech recognition system the pipeline is the following:
1. **Train a tokenizer.** The tokenizer takes in input the training transcripts and determines the subword units that will be used for both acoustic and language model training. **Training a tokenizer before the language and acoustic model is necessary**. Indeed, both of them will reuse this tokenizer to map the output tokens.
2. **Train a Language Model (LM).** The language model takes in input long texts from available books. We have recipes with RNN and transformer-based LMs. In both cases, the LM is used during beam search to assign different weights to different hypotheses generated by the acoustic model.
3. **Train an acoustic model (AM).** The acoustic model maps the input speech into a set of sub-words units. The current repository contains recipes for seq2seq (ctc+attention), transducers, and transformer-based systems. Since training an LM can take several days, by default the recipes downloads a pre-trained LM.

## How to simply use pretrained models to transcribe my audio file?

SpeechBrain provides a simple interface to transcribe audio files with pretrained models. All the necessary information can be found on the different HuggingFace repositories corresponding to our different models for LibriSpeech:
- [seq2seq (ctc+attention) + RNNLM](https://huggingface.co/speechbrain/asr-crdnn-rnnlm-librispeech)
- [seq2seq (ctc+attention) + TransformerLM](https://huggingface.co/speechbrain/asr-crdnn-transformerlm-librispeech)
- [Transformer + ctc + TransformerLM](https://huggingface.co/speechbrain/asr-transformer-transformerlm-librispeech)

## Pretrained models + further training 

To fine-tune the pre-trained models, you need to first download the models (e.g. `pretrained_models.zip`) and modify accordingly the training `YAML configuration scripts`; such as: `ASR/LibriSpeech/ASR/transformer/hparams/transformer.yaml`
